fakBEtur 0.5 (20061228)
(c) Maciej Witkowiak <mwitkowiak@gmail.com>, <ytm@elysium.pl>
http://ytm.bossstation.dnsalias.org/html/beos.html
http://members.elysium.pl/html/beos.html

fakBEtur is a program supporting the issuance of invoices. The program uses its own database
data, which contains information about issued documents. The base is also used for
storing data of contractors and goods.



WHY OPEN SOURCE
Release 0.5 of the program has been made available with the source code in the hope that it will prove useful.
I have no intention of developing the program further (list of things to do in the TODO file), I don't have the time to do so
enthusiasm and, even more so, time. Creating a program of this type without solid knowledge and/or support
substantive input from users makes no sense. It stopped being a job for me, by the way
which you can learn something and turned into a job.



LICENSE
The source code of the program has been released in the hope that it will be useful. You may copy it, distribute it, change it, and create new programs (including commercial ones) based on it.
The only thing that cannot be used is stating the origin and authorship of the code. It would be
Please also let me know and brag about what this code was used for.
In the case of paid applications, I count on a free copy.

The author has made every effort, but does not provide any guarantee for correct operation
program or documents generated by the program.

For legalists - the included license is the MIT License.


CHANGES
0.5
  - removed segfault when calculating margin at zero net price
0.4
  - in case of incorrect data, focus is moved to the appropriate field
  - ability to import a list of goods from another document
  - monthly sales summary
  - original/copies, original+copies, ability to configure the number of copies
  - configuration of the default number of days for payment (counting from the day of sale)
  - new list support, ability to sort by selected columns
  - dialogue with the calendar to select the date
  - report on overdue receivables
  - ability to set the default value for the 'Issued' field
  - option - simplified numbering of documents (without month)
  - uniform keyboard shortcuts: F2/3/4 - change tab, F5/6/8/9 - action, ENTER - save
  - summary on the tab with a list of invoice items
  - report on paid/unpaid contractor invoices, available from the receivables and companies tab
  - 'paid' button for immediate payment of the entire invoice
  - information about goods extended to include warehouse status and the last change
0.3
  - database format change, database versioning added - currently no upgrade possible,
    this will be possible in the event of further changes
  - remembering paths (save directory, HTML template)
  - goods/companies appearing on the invoice for the first time are added to the database
  - ability to edit tax rates
  - full print configuration (export type, number of copies, document type)
  - after adding the item to the invoice, focus moved to the "Quantity" field
  - printing via print_server (default font is Arial, for printing to PDF it should be in the options
    attach it (embed) to the file)
0.2
  - resignation from SpLocale
  - checking data correctness
  - better export template to HTML (table with frames)
  - refreshing symbols in the invoice tab after changes in the database
  - names of all fields set depending on the current font, always visible
  - automatic setting of the new invoice number, place of issue set to
    company headquarters
0.1
  - first public version



REQUIREMENTS
The program requires configuring BeOS to support the Polish keyboard layout and
installing fonts with Polish characters.
A template is required for HTML export, an example template is attached
program. It can be placed in any location.



INSTALLATION
The program can be unpacked anywhere, a template is required for HTML export.
The template should be placed by default in the file: /boot/home/vatszablon.html, if it is not there
will be, the program will ask you to select a template. Its location will be remembered.



CONFIGURATION
The first time you run the program, it will create a database and set the default configuration.
Then a dialogue will open in which you must provide the details of the company issuing the invoices.



SERVICE
Most operations and switching between tabs can be performed using function keys.
The 'ENTER' key is equivalent to saving the current card to the database. Attention! On the tab
invoices, the entry of goods on the invoice should not be confused with the entry of the entire invoice.

The 'SYMBOL' field present in the list of contractors and goods is used to enter an abbreviated form
name, thanks to which it is possible to quickly find records and fill in invoice fields.
On all tabs, the 'Name' and 'SYMBOL' fields must be completed and unique.

You can enter simple arithmetic operations in the numeric fields, but to avoid
incorrect rounding of a number should always be given as a decimal fraction.
E.g. instead of "3/7" you hould be "3.0/7.0".

a) MENU
DOCUMENT
Used to select the type of documents to be printed.

OPTIONS
Here you can select the printing/export method, change company parameters, and set
new tax rates and default values - the number of printed copies and payment deadline.
Additionally, you can enable simplified numbering of invoices - without a month. When editing existing ones
tax rates, it is not possible to change the rate, only the name. This allows you to keep it
data integrity.

SUMMARY
This menu provides summaries of monthly sales and outstanding receivables. Current receivables
each contractor can be recalled on the contractor card. Negative number of days to pay (possible
also provide it in the receivables dialogue) means how many days remain until arrears occur.

b) GOODS
There is a simple calculator in the 'Goods' tab that allows you to calculate prices.
Purpose of the buttons:
- Selling price - based on the purchase price and discount, it calculates a new net selling price
- Margin - calculates the margin based on the purchase price, discount and net sales price
- Import - based on the exchange rate, purchase price (the unit is then a foreign currency),
   duties, margin and discount calculates the net selling price
On this tab you can also change the current stock level.

c) CONTRACTORS
The customer/supplier fields currently have no meaning.
The 'Active' field controls whether the contractor's symbol should be selectable in the tab
invoices.
The 'Locked' field blocks the possibility of editing the contractor's data and protects against accidental changes
changes.

c) INVOICES
In the 'Payment' fields you can select/enter the payment date or the number of days from the date of sale.
In the second case, the date will be updated automatically after moving the focus to another one
text field (e.g. tab).
When adding/editing items, always click 'Save' (in the invoice item frame),
to add new data to the invoice, then press ENTER or click 'Save' at the bottom,
to save all invoice information.
The "Import from another" button is used to copy a list of items from another document to the current one.
Attention! If we edit a document that contains a sales date earlier than the date
the last warehouse change of a given product, the warehouse status will not change.



PRINT
To print a document, select the document type from the 'Document' menu and
printing method from the 'Options' menu, then go to the 'INVOICES' tab and select
invoice from the list and click 'Print' at the bottom or press F9.



HTML EXPORT
Any changes to the appearance can be made using the sample template. Lyrics
surrounded by @ signs, e.g. @FNAME@ will be converted to the appropriate z data
invoices. The @TABLE@ field will be converted into a sequence of rows of an HTML table, without additional attributes, similarly to the @TABLE@ field.



EXPORT TXT
Saving to a text file serves as a demonstration of capabilities rather than actual utility
option. Properly processed, it can be the basis for direct printing on dot matrix printers.



ARCHIVING
To create a database archive, you just need to save the file in a safe way
databases: /boot/home/config/share/fakbetur.db



UNINSTALLATION
Delete the program, the HTML template file and the database file
/boot/home/config/share/fakbetur.db
